---
id: 93
title: Buzz
date: 2010-02-17T15:31:53+00:00
author: raymondchen625
layout: post
guid: http://www.raymondchen.com/?p=93
permalink: /2010/02/17/buzz/
original_post_id:
  - "93"
  - "1083"
categories:
  - Tech
  - Web
---
What Google Buzz is trying to do, I guess, is providing a uniform view to different social products, including Google&#8217;s own product like Profiles, Picasa and Reader, as well as third-party product like Twitter. The idea is not bad, and not new.

My friends connect Buzz with their Twitter. And I&#8217;ve seen the effect, not bad. But I&#8217;m not going to do that. I&#8217;ve my own reason: I use different products to interact with differnt groups. They&#8217;re not nccessarily overlap completely.

That&#8217;s ok for Buzz. Since connecting with Twitter is optional. If I don&#8217;t want to do it, just don&#8217;t set it up.

But that leads to a potential challenging issue to Buzz: how shall we organize different groups for different products in this universal view? I don&#8217;t see a satisfactory solution yet.

Google Contacts supports groups, and can assign different groups with &#8220;Public&#8221; or &#8220;Private&#8221; label. That&#8217;s google&#8217;s solution by now. If I only want to share my buzz with restricted friends, I have to group them, and mark those groups with &#8216;Private&#8217; label. Then buzz it in Private mode. That&#8217;s already a simple enough solution, though some might still find it confusing.  The grouping can not be further categorized to be product-specific, like &#8216;twitter-friends&#8217;, &#8216;twitter-strangers&#8217;, &#8216;picasa-freiends&#8217;. Even if it supports such features, there is still a usability issue. Nobody would like such complicated features.

I guess this is a common issue when you try to connect applications together.

In my optimal situation, both Buzz(or other central connected apps) and third-party apps have to work together to have a common user, group and access control  architecure. The API and the supported functions must be ready. But that&#8217;s easy said than done. Since both sides are independent entity. Buzz&#8217;s priority is never Twitter&#8217;s, and vice versa.