---
id: 349
title: N/A
date: 2012-05-19T17:50:16+00:00
author: raymondchen625
layout: post
guid: http://www.raymondchen.com/?p=349
permalink: /2012/05/19/na/
original_post_id:
  - "349"
  - "1083"
categories:
  - Gadget
  - Life
---
&nbsp;

I found my last post was dated last August, which was long long ago.

I&#8217;ve used my MacBook Air for 9 months. I&#8217;ve to say it&#8217;s still a satisfying machine. The performance is good, the battery life can still last most of my meetings. The most correct decision I&#8217;ve made is choosing the 250G SSD disk, which was very expensive. I&#8217;ve only around 20GB free space left right now. If I&#8217;d chosen a small one, my usage would be a horrible memory, in which I will spend much time plugging and unplugging external storage devices.

I bought an iPhone 4s in February, which officially made me an Apple fan. After fiddling with it for a few weeks, I&#8217;ve made it almost as productive as Android. Jailbreak, of course. Here is my favorite jailbreak app list:

  * Baidu IME: supports Shuang Pin and phone keyboard layout(rather than qwert)
  * AndroidLock XT: locks/unlocks by connecting dots
  * LockInfo: puts calendar and customized RSS entries on lock screen
  * Sogou Haomatong: filters out spams
  * Activator, SBSettings, WinterBoard, AppFlow, StartDial, IconBounce etc.

I tried some online music services, like Last.fm, Tunein Radio, Jazz FM91. None of them is perfect. I&#8217;ve to use VPN to get Tunein Radio play in China. Last.fm has the same problem, plus Chinese album name ordering problem in iScrob.